Barclays Services Corp. seeks Axiom Developer, AVP in Whippany, NJ (multiple positions available):

Design, develop, and conduct performance tuning to enhance internal strategic tools for Axiom regulatory reporting.

Design and develop Axiom objects including Data Sources, Shorthands, Data Models, Modify Models, Portfolios, Aggregations, Tabular Reports, and Free Form reports.

Perform software development for U.S. Federal Reserve Bank (FRB) mandatory reports automation and changes for organization Intermediate Holding Company utilizing Axiom.

Create User Defined Functions for implementing complex business requirements and design and create dynamic regulatory reports in Axiom using XML scripting.

Convert business requirements into technical specifications and design and develop report templates using Axiom scripts pursuant to guidelines and instructions provided by FRB.

Provide software development expertise to U.S. regulatory reporting team in submitting reports to FRB.

Establish data communication across regulatory reports, establish dependencies between regulatory reports, and schedule jobs using Axiom action statements and Axiom scripts.

Perform electronic submission testing of regulatory reports through Axiom FRB Reporting Central test environment and debug report template issues.

Leverage Axiom to analyze data and better understand drivers affecting organization, including budgeting, forecasting, planning, and reporting.

Support hardware upgrades, operating system upgrades, and Oracle database development, performance turning, and upgrades by coordinating required analysis and development and supporting production implementation.

Ensure compliance with organizational control processes, policies, and procedures and coordinate delivery against open audit and compliance items.

May telecommute pursuant to company policies. [Hybrid]

Minimum Salary: $160,805 per year

Maximum Salary: $175,000 per year

The minimum and maximum salary/rate information above includes only base salary or base hourly rate. It does not include any other type of compensation or benefits that may be available.

Barclays employees are eligible for a suite of a competitive and generous employee benefits, including medical, dental and vision coverage, 401(k), life insurance, and other paid leave for qualifying circumstances.

This position is eligible for an incentive award.

Purpose of the role

To design, develop and improve software, utilising various engineering methodologies, that provides business, platform, and technology capabilities for our customers and colleagues. 

Accountabilities

Development and delivery of high-quality software solutions by using industry aligned programming languages, frameworks, and tools. Ensuring that code is scalable, maintainable, and optimized for performance.
Cross-functional collaboration with product managers, designers, and other engineers to define software requirements, devise solution strategies, and ensure seamless integration and alignment with business objectives.
Collaboration with peers, participate in code reviews, and promote a culture of code quality and knowledge sharing.
Stay informed of industry technology trends and innovations and actively contribute to the organization’s technology communities to foster a culture of technical excellence and growth.
Adherence to secure coding practices to mitigate vulnerabilities, protect sensitive data, and ensure secure software solutions.
Implementation of effective unit testing practices to ensure proper code design, readability, and reliability.
Assistant Vice President Expectations

To advise and influence decision making, contribute to policy development and take responsibility for operational effectiveness. Collaborate closely with other functions/ business divisions.
Lead a team performing complex tasks, using well developed professional knowledge and skills to deliver on work that impacts the whole business function. Set objectives and coach employees in pursuit of those objectives, appraisal of performance relative to objectives and determination of reward outcomes
If the position has leadership responsibilities, People Leaders are expected to demonstrate a clear set of leadership behaviours to create an environment for colleagues to thrive and deliver to a consistently excellent standard. The four LEAD behaviours are: L – Listen and be authentic, E – Energise and inspire, A – Align across the enterprise, D – Develop others.
OR for an individual contributor, they will lead collaborative assignments and guide team members through structured assignments, identify the need for the inclusion of other areas of specialisation to complete assignments. They will identify new directions for assignments and/ or projects, identifying a combination of cross functional methodologies or practices to meet required outcomes.
Consult on complex issues; providing advice to People Leaders to support the resolution of escalated issues.
Identify ways to mitigate risk and developing new policies/procedures in support of the control and governance agenda.
Take ownership for managing risk and strengthening controls in relation to the work done.
Perform work that is closely related to that of other areas, which requires understanding of how areas coordinate and contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the organisation sub-function.
Collaborate with other areas of work, for business aligned support areas to keep up to speed with business activity and the business strategy.
Engage in complex analysis of data from multiple sources of information, internal and external sources such as procedures and practises (in other areas, teams, companies, etc).to solve problems creatively and effectively.
Communicate complex information. 'Complex' information could include sensitive information or information that is difficult to communicate because of its content or its audience.
Influence or convince stakeholders to achieve outcomes.
All colleagues will be expected to demonstrate the Barclays Values of Respect, Integrity, Service, Excellence and Stewardship – our moral compass, helping us do what we believe is right. They will also be expected to demonstrate the Barclays Mindset – to Empower, Challenge and Drive – the operating manual for how we behave.